README.md, before:

# SemVer Tagger

A simple CLI utility to create [Semantic Version](https://semver.org) tags in Git repos.

Note that _this does not support the full semver spec_. This is a simple, one-size-fits-most tool, not a universal tool that will work on every project.

## Installation

```shell
go install github.com/markormesher/semver-tagger
```

There is also a container image with the tool: `ghcr.io/markormesher/semver-tagger:VERSION`. It is based on Debian and provides `semver-tagger` and `git`.

## Usage

```shell
semver-tagger [options]
```

Options:

- Version type
  - `-a` - automatically determine the version type (default behaviour if no other type flags are set).
  - `-M` - bump the major vesion.
  - `-m` - bump the minor vesion.
  - `-p` - bump the patch vesion.
  - `-rc` - add or increment the release candidate counter.
  - `-no-rc` - remove the release candidate counter.
  - `-init` - create the initial `v0.1.0` version.
- Other options
  - `-v` - verbose logging.
  - `-f`, `--force` - ignore the following conditions that would normally cause the tool to abort:
    - The repo work tree is not clean.
    - The repo is not on a default branch.
    - There have been no commits since the last version was tagged.
  - `-y`, `--no-confirm` - don't wait for confirmation on the new tag.
  - `-P`, `--push` - push tags to the remote after creating them.

## Examples

> For more examples, check the test cases in the code.

```
# Bump the major version
Command: semver-tagger -M
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v2.0.0
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v2.0.0

# Bump the major version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -M -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v2.0.0-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v2.0.0-rc1

# Bump the minor version
Command: semver-tagger -m
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.3.0
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.3.0

# Bump the minor version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -m -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.3.0-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.3.0-rc1

# Bump the patch version
Command: semver-tagger -p
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.4
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4

# Bump the patch version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -p -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.4-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4-rc1

# Bump the release candidate counter only
Command: semver-tagger -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.3-rc1  (note that you shouldn't really be tagging RC versions when a non-RC already exists)
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4-rc3

# Remove the release candidate counter
Command: semver-tagger -no-rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.3  (no change)
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.3
```

### Automatic Version Detection

Setting the `-a` flag (or no version type flag at all) will cause the tool to determine the tag type automatically. The logic applied minimal:

- If the latest tag is an RC, apply an RC tag.
- Otherwise, if all commits since the last tag are chores, fixes or CI-related (as defined by the regex in `main.go`), apply a patch tag.
- Otherwise, apply a minor tag.

Automatic version detection will never create a major tag or remove the RC counter.

Commit message:

feat: don't apply tags for non-code comits

README.md, after:

# SemVer Tagger

A simple CLI utility to create [Semantic Version](https://semver.org) tags in Git repos.

Note that _this does not support the full semver spec_. This is a simple, one-size-fits-most tool, not a universal tool that will work on every project.

## Installation

```shell
go install github.com/markormesher/semver-tagger
```

There is also a container image with the tool: `ghcr.io/markormesher/semver-tagger:VERSION`. It is based on Debian and provides `semver-tagger` and `git`.

## Usage

```shell
semver-tagger [options]
```

Options:

- Version type
  - `-a` - automatically determine the version type (default behaviour if no other type flags are set).
  - `-M` - bump the major vesion.
  - `-m` - bump the minor vesion.
  - `-p` - bump the patch vesion.
  - `-rc` - add or increment the release candidate counter.
  - `-no-rc` - remove the release candidate counter.
  - `-init` - create the initial `v0.1.0` version.
- Other options
  - `-v` - verbose logging.
  - `-f`, `--force` - ignore the following conditions that would normally cause the tool to abort:
    - The repo work tree is not clean.
    - The repo is not on a default branch.
    - There have been no commits since the last version was tagged.
  - `-y`, `--no-confirm` - don't wait for confirmation on the new tag.
  - `-P`, `--push` - push tags to the remote after creating them.

## Examples

> For more examples, check the test cases in the code.

```
# Bump the major version
Command: semver-tagger -M
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v2.0.0
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v2.0.0

# Bump the major version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -M -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v2.0.0-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v2.0.0-rc1

# Bump the minor version
Command: semver-tagger -m
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.3.0
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.3.0

# Bump the minor version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -m -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.3.0-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.3.0-rc1

# Bump the patch version
Command: semver-tagger -p
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.4
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4

# Bump the patch version and mark it as a release candidate
Command: semver-tagger -p -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.4-rc1
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4-rc1

# Bump the release candidate counter only
Command: semver-tagger -rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.3-rc1  (note that you shouldn't really be tagging RC versions when a non-RC already exists)
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.4-rc3

# Remove the release candidate counter
Command: semver-tagger -no-rc
Examples:
  v1.2.3      ->  v1.2.3  (no change)
  v1.2.3-rc2  ->  v1.2.3
```

### Automatic Version Detection

Setting the `-a` flag (or no version type flag at all) will cause the tool to determine the tag type automatically. The logic applied minimal:

- If there have been no commits since the last tag, no tag is applied.
- Otherwise, if all commits since the last tag are non-code commits, no tag is applied.
- Otherwise, if the latest tag is an RC, an RC tag is applied.
- Otherwise, if all commits since the last tag are patch commits, a patch tag is applied.
- Otherwise, a minor tag is applied.

Automatic version detection will never create a major tag or remove the RC counter.

Non-code and patch commits are defined by the regexes in `main.go`.
